Interview_P1_Ammad_Alsairafi_Accenture.mp4


Perfect. No. Uh, so again, thanks. Thanks very much, Amara. And, um, yeah, I do have a I do have a few questions. We'll go through. I suppose I won't stick too rigidly to them as well because I'm really keen on kind of hearing um, any any examples, your use cases, what you know, a day a day in your life and your team's uh, life looks like. And really what I'm looking for is kind of any any gaps or opportunities to improve the the workday recruiting product to better, you know, fit the needs of the of the region. So um so so yeah I suppose just just first question maybe before we jump properly in could you could you tell me a bit about your your role today? What does a what does a typical day look like for you?
Yeah sure. So I lead cyber security and campus hiring. So um on the cyber security piece I look after um basically me hiring for cyber security that includes Egypt and GCC countries um suiting include Africa. Um I manage a team more of about five people. So in terms of the performance management, you also utilize workday um uh priorities, ABCD, reflections, feedbacks, etc. Um and then I also work on the campus piece. Um I we utilize workday on that front for sort of event management um and event uh capturing the data of of candidates that that we interact with during events. Um so that's that's how we utilize that and then I also handle roles specifically myself. So in terms of managing you know roles end to end I I also do that. So that would include you know posting the roles on workday sourcing candidates moving them through the different steps of the process and then capturing um notes and and information on the candidates. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. So quite a um quite quite a role by by the sounds of it like you mentioned campus hiring and um also you know handling roles end to end. So um yeah would would be would be kind of interested to maybe walk through that that process and understand um you know where you know maybe any any pain points are. So um so so yeah maybe just a couple of related questions uh I suppose what do you what do you like about workday recruiting today? So you know when you are using the system yourself. Um, and you know, thinking about, you know, campus hiring and other types of hiring that you do and where does it fall short as well for hiring needs in Saudi and the GCC region.
Um, I think what I like about workday is that it's a holistic um, program where we can look at at everything, right? The challenge that we've found or that I face with workday is is a number of one of challenges that I've seen. Um, one for example uh and these are specific cases right one is I was trying to move candidates from one requisition to another but it didn't allow me to have that access even though I'm a recruitment lead it still didn't allow me to move candidates unless I'm tagged to those requisitions which doesn't really work because sometimes okay it might not be my requisition but I think this candidate is suitable tag to a position that one of my recruiters are working on why doesn't the system allow me that capability it took me another what 5 10 minutes to go and assign the roles and then move the canvas across and be tagged to all these wrecks and then I needed to go again and remove my name as an assigne to these wrecks. So, it sort of hinders the process. Um, also in terms of screening notes, um, I think it's very restrictive when it comes to allowing you to add your notes to candidates. Sometimes, for example, it's it's notice screening is just a what do you call it? It's just an explor exploratory call and and um that there's no option to add notes on a candidate if it's not if you haven't moved them to the screen stage, which I think is
is something that's not great because sometimes we'll have candidates, you know, they they might be tagged to a certain rack, but they're not as screened stage. So, I want to add those notes to their information without without having to move them across the process. Um uh this is something that it might be due to my lack of knowledge, but say for example, I want to look at the historic data on a role. Um
I'm not sure if workday allows me to do that. So if we say 100 people have applied, you know, we've rejected 50%, we've moved people to screen 25% etc. I'm not sure if workday allows you that level of details on specific wreck. Again, maybe a gap in my knowledge, but I think if it can if if work day can give us those capabilities, it would be absolutely brilliant. Um I don't know about AI and if if AI is something that you guys are looking at in terms of introducing it into workday. I think that would be quite helpful um if it's integrated uh and and it will help sort of moving things along as well. Um I think what we're doing at least what we're doing in Accenture is we're using another system that's integrated with workday when it comes to scheduling and setting up interviews.
I think if if that capability is added to workday directly where we can schedule interviews and it will send notifications to the hiring manager and to the candidate telling them that this is set up and this is the time.
It will be a lot better, right? Um or it would allow the hiring manager to add interview slots into the system.
It will just give us a lot more flexibility in terms of you know what we can do rather than having to chase for interview slots. I think
the system should manage the end to end process not just pockets pockets of it and pockets are manage through a different uh website.
Sure.
Um yeah, what what other stuff? We're we're now facing a few challenges when it comes to the offer generation. I don't think this the system is very rigid. So when you're doing anything that's outside of what was already configured, it become near impossible for you to move to the next step,
right? And then every time we say, okay, we need this included, we're given a two months deadline for developers to go and do their magic
which which makes our life difficult when for example I need to hire an ML12 in Egypt tomorrow but the system only generates offers from a level level 11 to level five
do you want to include that great give us two months okay I'm falling short on my hiring targets what should I do an offline contract go and get offline approvals
which is very frustrating to be honest with you um having to do that for a number of both of situations now. So
yeah, that's these are some of the challenges that I've been toying with.
Yeah. No, really appreciate the the the feedback and the examples there. So a few things I I heard um in terms of moving candidates back, you know, from between job wrecks uh kind of notes, you know, the before the that screening step um historic data on the on the role. He mentioned AI. Yes, absolutely. That's that's something we're um we're we're working fairly heavily on at the moment and we do have um uh a job wreck uh agent in in progress at the moment. So it with early adopters. So that's something um you know I can definitely take back to to the team there as well in terms of you know maybe AI could be used to help look at that historic data more um you know more accessibly than than what it is today. Um interview scheduling yes definitely something that's um it's top of mind as well for us. Um I know with the recent Paradox um acquisition as well. Um you know I think in in the longer term you know that's something we're hoping Paradox will be able to to to fill a fairly significant gap on at the moment definitely something we've we've commonly heard and then offer generation as well. Um for sure. So um yeah no really appreciate that. Um just maybe to to dig in to you know you mentioned various different parts of the the process there. Are there any for I suppose for the countries that you you know you're hiring in um are there any differences across the diff the different countries in terms of the needs around some of those those parts of the flow um like for example in in Egypt um you know are there specific u needs around offers that are different in Saudi or things like um language resume parsing things like that um just just curious in terms of um
well I mean from an from a language perspective all the candidates that we deal with are English speakers and have English resumes right so from that perspective we're a multinational that's the standard we've expect from our candidates um from an offer perspective of course every country has its own offer process um in terms of what they what they need um we're still collecting candidate documents offline If we can do that through workday to say, "Hey, you're accepted for an offer. This is the set of documents that you're now request to submit. Please submit them and the the candidate can go and upload them against multiple categories on the system." That would be brilliant because I don't want to be sending emails and getting my email clogged with a CV and a um you know a a bachelor degree and a passport copy. I I really don't want that. Right. And it's confidentiality issues as well. So, right,
if Candace can upload it on the system, that'd be brilliant. If we're talking about the scheduling perspective, um you know, um in case for example, there's legislation that every interview panel will need to have at least one um Saudi national uh sitting on that panel. Can we embed that somehow? Okay, not in terms of the nationality, but can we if we're looking at scheduling online, that needs to allow us to put in
the panel names um you know, in terms of who's going to be interviewed um and who's going to be involved in panel. So things like that. But in terms of um in terms of regul regular
perspective that are implemented through work deck, I can't really think of anything that's significantly different from what we're doing here to what we're doing externally.
Okay.
In other markets, EMIA for example.
Yeah. Okay. No, that that makes sense. Um um I think the the uh KSA I think that you know, that's kind of an interesting nuance. It sounds that that's maybe slightly more unique there. Um, we are actually I think you're asking about AI. My my team is actually working on an interview panel uh skill for recruiting agents at the moment. Um, and Accenture are actually one of our early adopter customers. So, that's um that's useful information for me as well in terms of you know maybe configurability to you know to to check around having having you know at least one Saudi national on the on the panel. So, um, again, I think that's that that's useful. Um, just I suppose in terms of of regulations, you know, from some of my secondary research I've done on the region, um, you know, nationalization, you know, that seems to be a a topic across, you know, various different countries within within GCC. Um, is that something that I suppose you would need to take into account when you're hiring in in Saudi or or different regions? And how the system like are you able to to cater for that as part in the workday res uh system at the moment or do you need to go outside the system for that?
I think and this is something that this is a discussion that we're having internally. I don't think it's a problem with the system as such because we're able to add fields that ask for nationality.
Um but it was more of Accenture's own internal policies that didn't allow that, right? They're like, "Oh, we don't ask about nationalities." How However, we've gotten an exception for this region
to make sure that we're tracking that because as you said, I'm liable to hit, I don't know, 20% immeritization,
um 60% national saization, um 50% kuizization on my hiring. So, it's quite it's quite um
it's quite important that we track those metrics um on workday. Um and gender as well, for example, is another metric that we're tracking. Um why do we track that? Because again we need to hit a certain um diversity uh percentage in the markets that we're working on. Um PWD is another area. I have a 4% com um regulatory requirement compliance requirements in case I need 4% of my workforce to be PWD which is people with disabilities in Egypt it's 5%. So that's something that I need the ability to track throughout or through work day because
then that gives me the power to to make decisions and make sure that we're
we're meeting um that criteria.
Okay. No, that that makes sense. Um so it sounds like the system can do it technically. I suppose it's just an internal policy in terms of enabling uh enabling that to be set up. And where would that information typically be collected from candidates? Would it be during the apply flow or where
during the application process? They'll need to fill it in. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, cool. And then I presume like you you'd want to report on those fields then um on the on the back ends to to understand yeah how how you're getting on with the the different um the different quotas. Um
that's great. Um wanted to ask you just a couple of other things that um um I suppose commonly come up when we're researching I suppose for for different regions. Ré parsing I I just wants to get your thoughts on that on how that works how the current ré parser works for the region. So it's part of the reason um I asked this is we're assessing um potentially different technologies to improve the resume parser um you know that that could read other other languages. I know you mentioned English um would be you know typically you know the the language used uh there. So maybe that's not so much of a of a of a an issue there or the the resume formats maybe aren't as different to other regions but just wanted to get your thoughts on that for the for the region.
Would you be when you say resume parser what do you mean a translate service.
Um so during the I suppose during the the candidate apply flow uh candidates can upload their their resumes and that's uh basically parsed into the application form. Um so for English from what we understand from customers that works usually quite well. Uh but you know when you're getting into Japanese or other or um you know some of the Indian languages things like that um and with different kind of formats for you know for different regions um it, you know, it struggles a little bit more with with some of those languages. So, just curious if that's something you've come across in in the GCC region.
I don't know to be honest because I I don't even know if it supports Arabic. Um, if it's support I I I've never tried to use it in Arabic language and I think that even our candidates would usually go that you know the the standard setup is English. So, yeah,
that's what they will need to fill. So, I've never faced an issue with that um as such.
Okay. Okay. No, that's That's again that's that's useful to know. Um curious as well in terms of um integrations are there any other um are there any GCC specific integrations that you currently use? So for example for background checks um local government portals things like that that that might be specific to the to the region.
We don't integrate with any government portals. I I believe that that would be an absolutely behemoth task. that will take years to complete. We're trying to integrate with own our own accenture systems and that takes two to three months for setup. So um we we don't we don't at the moment acquire that as such um and use you know for any candidates that are coming from these portals we invite them to apply to Accentia
uh you know accenture portal and that's linked to workday.
Um
from a setup perspective you know we're setting up Kuwait at the moment which has been a bit bit of a challenge, but I'm expecting the testing to be completed and the go live to happen next month. Um, I don't know if we're going to set up in a new market, but that that remains to be to be seen at this stage.
And I suppose for Kuwait, have you come across any challenges specific to there? Um, or is it is it just just the I suppose the usual challenge of setting up a new country?
Just the usual setup of the usual challenge of setting up a new country is what Um, you know, the country's been running for a year and we still don't have work day for it. So,
okay. Gotcha. Okay. Um, okay. No, that that makes sense. Um, yeah. I I I suppose just if if and maybe going back to some of the some of the earlier challenges, I I was just curious, you know, if there was one thing you could change tomorrow within workday recruiting um for the for the GCC market, what would it be and and why?
Um, Um, I think the scheduling piece is something that I would I would wish for. If I can click my fingers and have it, I'd rather have that. And then the candidate reporting system in terms of how I report. I did look at the dashboards that it gives me and it's very couldn't read them to be completely honest. So in terms of the the way the data is structured and given that would help. Maybe it's a lack from our end in terms of managing the candidates on the portal
but just just gave me a headache to look at my my dashboards through workday. Um
maybe that's something we can look at how you present the data and you know you could select and choose what data is important to you
and how it's presented.
Okay. No, that makes sense. So this candid um candidate or sorry the candidate reporting is that around the kind of candidate grid in terms of like being able to review candidates and filter them and things like that or Yeah. Yeah. Okay cool.
Um the candidate grids the overall Rex um you know the overall Rex dashboard um you know you can pull a report but I can't go into workday and select okay I want all me and then I'll get
a nice dashboard of all these roles right I will need to
I'll need to sort of download it and create my own uh my own dashboards out of it so it's got
it's a tedious tedious task
yeah yeah no that makes sense um maybe just one more question from my side um candidate communication was something we we're interested in as well. We've we've been doing work around adding um SMS for example and something we're working on at the moment is WhatsApp integration. Um so I was just curious in terms of communication channels like that um would SMS WhatsApp be used in the in the region or there any any other
absolutely WhatsApp is an absolute necessary I think you know the whole world uses WhatsApp and um that's how I reach out to my candidates to for quick closures, right? Emails will take whenever. Um, but
when you're looking at WhatsApp, you get immediate responses, almost immediate responses. So, if workday can have integration with WhatsApp and it starts sending messages to candidates and scheduling their interviews and it's just going to be absolutely brilliant, right?
Absolutely. Yeah, I think you know very much the same in same Europe, but I believe that WhatsApp usage in in GCC is the highest I think. pretty much pretty much anywhere. So, um that's that's good to know. Uh we we actually have it. We're early adopters at the moment. So, um it's it's not too far away at this stage. Um okay.
Not too far away, David.
Uh well, GA for WhatsApp. That's
Yeah, but when you say it's not that far away, how long we're talking?
Oh, in terms of um I think we're looking at Yeah, I believe they're targeting 26 or one obviously safe harbor, but that that would be our next um our next release. Um so that's yeah that that's what I know the team are targeting at at the moment.
Okay.
Yep. Um I I suppose just maybe one last thing before uh before I let you go in terms of legislation. Are there any other things we should be aware of in terms of you know things we might need to support? I think we talked about kind of nationalization earlier. Are there any other things that you know you'd have to deal with? Um you know in terms of you know making sure it you know to achieve compliance for for for the various different countries there
I mean the main the main legislation um I don't think we manage our our annual leaves through through workday or our sick leaves or not that's all managed through a different system but if you're looking at a holistic you know employee applicant management system then you'll need to you'll need to have those checks and balances in place in terms of the regulatory requirements for annual leave, regulatory requirements for sick leaves, etc. In case specifically, there's even regulatory requirements when it comes to interview setup. So, you're not able to organize an interview um that is less than in less than three day notice, right?
Oh, wow. Okay.
That's a regulatory requirement. And then if you're going to violate that requirement, then you'll need to have the consent of the candidate on email that that's an actual compliance requirement. So if you're building a scheduling tool then what I would do is that if you're doing that it wouldn't block you but it will give you a notification in red to say hey you know you're you're not meeting the regulatory requirements when it comes to setting up the interviews are you sure you want to proceed right things like that um in terms of the panel you know once you put a panel in KSA for instance you need to select the nationality of the panel so that you make sure that 50% of them are nationals for example so on so forth. Um if you want the specific legislation, I'm more than happy to share it with you when it comes to um to setting up interviews and obviously there's all the things about contracts but that's done by legal and uploaded into our contracts in the system. So it's not really a work issue as such.
Yes. No, that makes sense. Um if you could if there was any details you could share around the legislation for um interview panels for KSA that would be um yeah that would be super valuable for us because like I mentioned we are looking at um AI around around interview management at the at the moment. So that would be that would be super useful. Um that's all the questions I had. Um Amar, was was there any questions you had for me or is there any other anything else you'd like to to share?
No, not specifically. Um you know, I think I've uh I I don't by any means, you know, consider myself an expert on work day, but I'm learning something every day. So yeah.
Yeah.
See how it goes.
Yeah. No, again I think that was it was super valuable I think just to just to understand where the opportunities are and then some some of those you know GCC uh specific points as well. Uh that's something we you know can go away and you know um feedback into our into our research. Listen, thanks so much for your time. Really appreciate it. Uh I know it's uh it sounds like a busy time at the moment. So really appreciate your time again.
No worries. My pleasure David and thank you very much for your patience. I know I joined the call 20 minutes late. So
no worries at all. No worries. Thanks. Okay, mate. Take care. Have a good even
Chat
🕌
GCC Product-Market Fit Research - Recruiting
11 sources
The provided sources offer a comprehensive analysis of the Recruiting Technology market within the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) for 2024-2025. They highlight how nationalization policies, such as Saudization and Emiratization, act as primary drivers for the adoption of sophisticated Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) to ensure regulatory compliance. The research identifies a significant shift toward AI-driven automation, mobile-first candidate experiences, and a heavy reliance on WhatsApp as the dominant communication channel. Competitive analysis compares global enterprise solutions like Workday, SAP, and Oracle against regional specialists like Bayt.com and Talentera that offer superior Arabic localization. Furthermore, expert interviews and PESTEL data outline the challenges of data sovereignty, complex labor laws, and the unique demographic duality of a young national workforce alongside a massive expatriate population. Physical data residency and hyperlocal compliance features are presented as essential requirements for technology providers looking to succeed in this rapidly expanding market.
How do Saudization and Emiratization policies impact recruiting software requirements?
Why is WhatsApp integration considered essential for hiring in the GCC?
How do regional ATS competitors like Talentera compare to global giants?
11 sources
Studio
Audio Overview
Slide Deck
Video Overview
Mind Map
Reports
Flashcards
Quiz
Infographic
Data Table
Prompt for Interview slide141d ago
The Talent Journey in Workday
10 sources · 166d ago
Human Capital Management
10 sources · 166d ago
NotebookLM can be inaccurate; please double check its responses.